h1. ElasticWulf-Service 

Elasticwulf-Service is a Rails Web Console that includes a REST API for launching on demand Beowulf clusters on Amazon EC2.  You can upload input data and code to Amazon S3, then submit a job request including how many nodes you want in your cluster.  Elasticwulf will spin up & configure a private beowulf cluster, process the data, upload the output results to an Amazon S3 bucket, and terminate the cluster when the job completes (termination is optional).  ElasticWulf-Service is like Amazon Elastic MapReduce, except it is uses MPI and REST instead of Hadoop and SOAP (and is open source).

h3. Features

* feature 1
* feature 2

h2. Running MPI jobs on EC2

overview goes here, workflow, s3 inputs, commands.


h3. Submitting jobs with the web dashboard

instructions go here for kmeans example

h4. standard C fractal generation example

todo

h3. Submitting jobs to the REST API

h4. API methods

API docs and instructions go here

h4. Sample Ruby client example

todo repeat kmeans example

h4. Curl examples

Submit a new job request
To submit a new job via a json request, you can post a JSON request to the REST api:

REQUEST
<pre>
$ curl -H "Content-Type:application/json" -H "Accept:application/json" -d  \
"{\"job\": {\"name\": \"My Json MPI job\", \"description\": \"test run of X\!Tandem\", \
 \"user_id\": 2, \"number_of_instances\": 12, \"instance_type\": \"c1.medium\", \
 \"input_files\": \"s3://mybucket/input/genome.txt s3://myfastabucket/somedata.fasta\", \
 \"commands\": \"bash runtandem.sh\", \"output_files\": \"myoutput.txt\", \"output_path\":  \
\"S3://myoutputbucket/myrunsfolder\"}}" http://localhost:3000/jobs
</pre>

Checking on job status via GET
REQUEST
<pre>
$ curl http://localhost:3000/jobs/3.json
</pre>

Cancel a job request and shutdown the EC2 cluster
REQUEST
<pre>
$ curl -H "Content-Type:application/json" -H "Accept: application/json" \ 
-X PUT  http://localhost:3000/jobs/3/cancel 
</pre>


h3. More code examples & applications

h4. Rmpi example: 

todo

h4. psvm support vector machine example

todo

h4. Mpi4py example: monte carlo options pricing

todo

h4. Excel example: credit risk

todo

h4. Bioinformatics example: mpiblast

todo

h2. Dependencies

dependencies will go here (rails, ec2onrails, capistrano, Amazon EC2/S3 setup)

h2. Installation

fetching the source code instructions will go here

h2. Deploying to EC2


Install the ec2onrails gem as described at http://ec2onrails.rubyforge.org/:
<pre>	$ sudo gem install ec2onrails </pre>
Find AMI id of the latest 32 bit ec2onrails image (in our case this was ami-5394733a):
<pre>	$ cap ec2onrails:ami_ids</pre>

Launch an instance of the latest ec2onrails ami and note the returned instance address from ec2-describe-instances, it will be something like ec2-12-xx-xx-xx.z-1.compute-1.amazonaws.com 
<pre>
	$ ec2-run-instances ami-5394733a -k gsg-keypair
	$ ec2-describe-instances
</pre>
Create the needed configuration files from the provided examples and edit them, filling in your instance address information, keypairs, and other configuration information as indicated in the comments of each file. See the ec2onrails documentation or source code for more details on each setting.  If you want to make changes to the elasticwulf code, be sure to replace the base github repository in deploy.rb and config.yml with your own github location.
<pre>
	$ cp config/deploy.rb.example config/deploy.rb
	$ cp config/s3.yml.example config/s3.yml
	$ cp config/config.yml.example config/config.yml
	$ cp config/database.yml.example config/database.yml	
</pre>	
Be sure to substitute in your own AWS key and secret key in both config.yml and s3.yml
<pre>
	aws_secret_access_key: YYVUYVIUBIBI
	aws_access_key_id: BBKBBOUjbkj/BBOUBOBJKBjbjbboubuBUB
</pre>
Also replace the admin user name and password in config.yml:
<pre>
	admin_user: REPLACE_ME
	admin_password: REPLACE_ME
</pre>
This application should be run under SSL and the access should be restricted to only trusted application ip addresses using EC2 security group filters.  Ideally, your client application is also running on EC2 in the same security group.

Deploy the app to your launched EC2 instance with Capistrano (this wil take several minutes)
<pre>
    $ cap ec2onrails:setup
    $ cap deploy:cold
</pre>
Use the admin login information you set in config.yml to access the dashboard from a web browser or as web service at the url of the instance you provided in deploy.rb: https://ec2-12-xx-xx-xx.z-1.compute-1.amazonaws.com . You can also ssh into your running EC2 instance as usual with your keypairs to debug any issues.  See the ec2onrails forums for more help debugging deployment issues.

To redeploy the app after making changes to the base elasticwulf code (this will also restart the delayed_job services which launch and terminate EC2 clusters):
<pre>
    $ cap deploy
</pre>
To manually restart the apache service or mongrels:
<pre>
    $ cap ec2onrails:server:restart_services
    $ cap deploy:restart
</pre>
To manually stop and start the delayed_job workers:
<pre>
	$ cap delayed_job:stop
	$ cap delayed_job:start
</pre>	
To clear the job queue, ssh into the EC2 instance and run the following command from within <pre>/mnt/app/current</pre> (no rake task yet):
<pre>
	$ RAILS_ENV=production rake jobs:clear
</pre>

h2. Running a development version locally

Unless your local machine's ip address and rails port is publicly reachable, local runs will not function properly (the cluster nodes need to communicate with the rails app).

Do the normal rails gem install dance for any missing dependencies
<pre>
	$ rake gems:install
</pre>

Create the database
<pre>
    $ rake db:create
    $ rake db:migrate
</pre>

Launch the rails app itself 
<pre>
	$ script/server 
	=> Booting Mongrel
	=> Rails 2.3.2 application starting on http://0.0.0.0:3000
	=> Call with -d to detach
	=> Ctrl-C to shutdown server
</pre>
	
Launch a background delayed_job worker in a separate terminal window
<pre>
	$ rake jobs:work
	(in /Users/pskomoroch/rails_projects/elasticwulf-service)
	*** Starting job worker host:72-63-103-214.pools.spcsdns.net pid:12221
	background cluster launch initiated...
	1 jobs processed at 0.0498 j/s, 0 failed ...
	background cluster shutdown initiated...
	1 jobs processed at 0.0499 j/s, 0 failed ...
	background cluster launch initiated...
</pre>

Navigate to http://localhost:3000/ to use the web UI or submit REST requests




